Active Directory Enumeration
Typically, an attack against Active
Directory infrastructure
begins with a successful exploit or
a client-side attack against either
a domain workstation or server followed
by enumeration of the AD environment.
Once we have established a foothold, the
goal is to escalate our privilege level
until we gain control of one
or more domains.
There are several ways to accomplish this.
Within AD, administrators use groups to
assign permissions to member users,
which means that we would
target high-value groups.
If we compromise a member
of the Domain Admins group,
we would gain complete control of
every single computer in the domain.
Another way to gain control of a domain
is to successfully compromise
a domain controller
since it can be used to modify all
domain-joined computers or
execute applications on them.
As we will see later, the domain
controller contains all the
password hashes of every
single domain user account.
As we work through this module,
we will walk through a variety
of AD enumeration and
exploitation techniques
to demonstrate a typical
domain compromise.
We will focus on techniques
specifically designed to enumerate
and exploit AD users and groups.
To do so, we will assume that
we have already obtained
access to the Windows 10 workstation,
and that we have compromised
the Offsec domain user
which is also a member of the
local administrator group
for a domain-joined workstation.
Our first goal will be to
enumerate the domain users
and learn as much as we can
about their group memberships
in order to find high-value targets.
To do this, we will use
several tools and techniques,
many of which can be performed
without administrative access.